Actor critic elegantly mixes direct
policy optimization, value functions, and
temporal difference learning.
The actor critic method we discussed
previously was quite general.
We didn't specify the function
approximation nor
the policy parameterization.
Today we discuss one specific
implementation, actor critic with linear
function approximation and
a Softmax policy parameterization.
[MUSIC]
By the end of this video you'll be able
to derive the actor critic update for
a Softmax policy with linear action
preferences and implement this algorithm.
Previously, we introduced
the actor critic algorithm.
That algorithm combines policy evaluation,
which is the critic, and
the policy gradient rule to update
the policy, which is the actor.
The critic uses semi-gradient TD,
the actor uses the TDR from the critic
to update the policy parameters.
All of this is a little bit high level and
abstract.
Let's consider a specific implementation.
Let's build an algorithm for a finite
set of actions and continuous states.
A common choice of policy
parameterization for
finite actions is the Softmax
policy we discussed before.
We can use function approximation
to represent the preferences.
The parameters of this function are the
policy parameters denoted by theta, so
our policy gradient learning
rule will update theta.
We use a Softmax policy that exponentiates
the preferences and divides by the sum.
This guarantees the resulting action
probabilities are positive and
summed to one.
Notice the policy is written as
a function of the current state.
This is like having a different
Softmax distribution for each state.
Watch the agent move
through the state space.
The state-dependent
action preferences give
rise to potentially different
distributions for each state.
To select an action,
we follow a simple procedure.
In the current state we query
the Softmax for each action.
This generates a vector of probabilities,
one entry for each action.
Given this vector, we pick an action
proportionally to these probabilities.
[MUSIC]
Now, let's discuss how our
parameterization choices impact the value
function, the action preferences,
and our update equations.
Let's use the same features for
our value estimates and the policy.
Remember the critic updates an estimate
of the state value function, so
the critic only requires a feature
Vector characterizing the current state.
The actor's action preferences
depend on the state and
action, so our action preference function
requires a state action feature vector.
We have encountered this issue before.
We use the same strategy as before,
stacked state features.
That is we use a copy of the state
feature vector for each action.
The size of the policy parameter vector,
theta, is larger than the weights, W,
used by the critic.
Since there are three actions,
this is three times larger.
Now let's look at the update equations for
the actor and
the critic with our linear
Softmax parameterization.
The first one is easy.
The gradient of the linear value
function is just the feature vector.
So the critic's weight update is just
alpha times the TDR times the feature
vector, same old semi-gradient TD.
The actor's update to the preferences
requires a bit more thought.
Luckily, the gradient is not so bad.
We will leave out the derivation and
just give you the final result.
You can verify it if you like.
The gradient has two parts.
The first is the state action features for
the selected action.
The second part is the state action
features multiplied by the policy summed
over all actions.
[MUSIC]
That's it for this video.
Today we discussed the specific
implementation of actor critic.
Now you know everything you need to know
to implement this algorithm on your own.
Next time we'll try this algorithm out and
see how it works.
I can't wait.